UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT OFFICE
Petition to Renew a Current Exemption Under 17 U.S.C. § 1201
Tenth Triennial Rulemaking
'lease submit a separate petition for each current exemption for which renewal is sough
lease download this form before filling out any form fields
Renewals of Exemptions
Use this form to petition to renew a current exemption with no changes. You must also submit the new exemption petition form to petition
to expand or modify a current exemption.
New Exemptions, Expansions, or Modifications
Use the Petition for New Exemption form to petition for a new exemption, modify a current exemption, or are seeking to engage in
activites not currently permitted by an existing exemption.
Item A. Petitioners and Contact Information
Please identify the petitioners and provide a means to contact the petitioners and/or their representatives, if any. The petitioner is the
individual or entity proposing the exemption.
Petitioner:
Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries, Inc., dba Recycled Materials Association
https://www.recycledmaterials.org/
Contact Info/Counsel for Petitioner:
Professor Phil Malone
Mills Legal Clinic
Juelsgaard Intellectual Property and Innovation Clinic
Stanford Law School
559 Nathan Abbott Way
Stanford, CA 94305-8610
(650) 725-6369
pmalone@law.stanford.edu
The authority for requesting this information is 17 U.S.C. S9 1201(a)(1) and 705. Furnishing the requested information is voluntary. The principal use of the requested information is
Privacy Act Advisory Statement: Required by the Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-579)
publication on the Copyright Office website and use by Copyright Office staff for purposes of the rulemaking proceeding conducted pursuant to 17 U.S.C. § 1201(a)(1). NOTE: No other
advisory statement will be given in connection with this application. Please keep this statement and refer to it if we communicate with you regarding this petition.
U.S. Copyright Office • Library of Congress • 101 Independence Avenue SE • Washington, DC 20557-6400 • copyright.gov

Item B. Identify Which Current Exemption Petitioners Seek to Renew
Check the appropriate box below that corresponds with the current temporary exemption (see 37 C.F.R. § 201.40) the petitioners seek to
renew. Please check only one box. If renewal of more than one exemption is sought, a separate petition must be submitted for each one.
Motion Pictures (including television programs and videos):
• Excerpts for use in documentary filmmaking or other films where use is in parody or for a biographical or historically significant nature
O Excerpts for use in noncommercial videos
Excerpts for use in nonfiction multimedia e-books
• Excerpts for educational purposes by college and university faculty, students, or employees acting at the direction of faculty, or K-12
educators and students
O '
Excerpts for educational purposes by faculty and employees acting at the direction of faculty in massive open online courses ("MOOCs")
• Excerpts for educational purposes in digital and literacy programs offered by libraries, museums, and other nonprofits
For the provision of captioning and/or audio description by disability services offices or similar units at educational institutions for
students, faculty, or staff with disabilities
• For the preservation or the creation of a replacement copy of the motion picture by libraries, archives, or museums
• For text and data mining by a researcher affiliated with a nonprofit institution of higher education, or by student or staff at the direction
of such researcher, for the purpose of scholarly research and teaching
Literary Works:
• Literary works distributed electronically for text and data mining by a researcher affiliated with a nonprofit institution of higher
education, or by student or staff at the direction of such researcher, for the purpose of scholarly research and teaching
• Literary works or previously published musical works that have been fixed in the form of text or notation whose technological
protection measures interfere with assistive technologies
• Literary works consisting of compilations of data generated by medical devices or their personal corresponding monitoring systems,
to access personal data
Computer Programs and Video Games:
• Computer programs that operate wireless devices, to allow connection to an alternative wireless network ("unlocking")
• Computer programs that operate smartphones and portable all-purpose mobile computing devices to allow the device to interoperate
with or to remove software applications ("jailbreaking")
• Computer programs that operate smart televisions to allow the device to interoperate with software applications on the television for
purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking")
• Computer programs that operate voice assistant devices to allow the device to interoperate with or to remove software applications
for purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking")
• Computer programs that operate routers and dedicated network devices to allow the device to interoperate with software applications
on the device for purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking")
• Computer programs that control motorized land vehicles, marine vessels, or mechanized agricultural vehicles or vessels for purposes
of diagnosis, repair, or modification of the vehicle or vessel, including to access diagnostic data

Item B. Identify Which Current Exemption Petitioners Seek to Renew (continued)
Computer Programs and Video Games:
• Computer programs that control motorized land vehicles, marine vessels, commercial vehicles or vessels, or mechanized agricultural
vehicles or vessels by vehicle or vessel owners and lessees, or those acting on their behalf, for purposes of accessing, storing, and
sharing operational data
• Computer programs that control devices designed primarily for use by consumers for diagnosis, maintenance, or repair of the device
• Computer programs that control retail-level commercial food preparation equipment for purposes of diagnosis, maintenance, or
repair of the device
• Computer programs that control medical devices or systems, and related data files, for diagnosis, maintenance, or repair of the
device or system
• Computer programs for purposes of good-faith security research
• Video games for which outside server support has been discontinued, to allow individual play by gamers and preservation of games
by libraries, archives, and museums (as well as necessary jailbreaking of console computer code for preservation uses only), and
discontinued video games that never required server support, for preservation by libraries, archives, and museums
• Computer programs other than video games, for the preservation of computer programs and computer program-dependent materials
by libraries, archives, and museums
• Computer programs that operate 3D printers, to allow use of alternative material
Computer programs for purpose of investigating potential infringement of free and open source computer programs

Item C. Explanation of Need For Renewal
Provide a brief explanation summarizing the continuing need and justification for renewing the exemption. While it is permissible to attach
supporting documentary evidence as exhibits to this petition, it is not necessary. Only petitions requesting renewal of exemptions granted in
the ninth triennial rulemaking as codified in the Code of Federal Regulations may be considered under the streamlined renewal process.
NOTE: Examples of renewal petitions filed in the last rulemaking cycle can be found at copyright.gov/1201/2024/petitions/renewal.
Informational guides explaining the 1201 rulemaking process and the streamlined renewal process can be found at copyright.gov/1201.
Introduction - The Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries, Inc. (ISRI), dba Recycled Materials Association, is pleased to once
again submit a petition for renewal in the Copyright Office's current DCMA Section 1201 triennial proceedings. In 2024, ISRI
rebranded itself and began operating under a new dba, the Recycled Materials Association (ReMA). ReMA submits this renewal
on behalf of our members who recycle, refurbish and repair used electronics devices including smartphones, tablets, notebooks,
desktops computers, servers, and a myriad of other electronic products.
ReMA represents more than 1,700 companies in over 40 countries that transform end-of-life products into essential, high-quality
raw materials the world relies on every day. Across electronic materials as well as metals, paper, plastics, glass, textiles, and
rubber, ReMA members sately and efficiently process recycled materials into the building blocks that power manufacturing,
strengthen and secure global supply chains, and conserve natural resources. ReMA is the only global trade association for the
entire supply chain of the recycled materials industry. It is also the primary organization for electronics recyclers and reburbishers
and IT asset disposition companies to come together and grow their businesses through an active community. In the United
States alone, ReMA members deliver $183 billion in economic activity each year and contribute 603,000 jobs in communities
nationwide. For more information about ReMA, please visit https://www.recycledmaterials.org/.
Background - ReMA, under its previous name ISRI, has submitted new, expansion, and renewal petitions in the §1201 triennial
proceedings over multiple cycles. In response to an ISRI petition, comments, and reply comments, the 2021 Final Rule granted
an exemption for "[c]omputer programs that enable wireless devices to connect to a wireless telecommunications network, when
circumvention is undertaken solely in order to connect to a wireless telecommunications network and such connection is
authorized by the operator of such network." 37 CFR § 201.40(b)(8). ReMA, under the ISRI name, submitted a renewal petition for
this exemption in July, 2023. The October 2024 Final Rule granted that renewal request and continued the exemption.
ReMA is aware of the issues involved with this exemption and the historical need for it. Through my work, I have personal
knowledge that this need continues to exist and will do so during the next triennial period. ReMA therefore requests that this
unlocking exemption once again be renewed.
Continued Expansion of the Number of Wireless, Especially 5G, Devices - The Register's 2021 Recommendation to approve the
current exemption recognized that an increasing number and range of devices included the ability to connect to a wireless
communications network, and that many 5G-enabled devices generally used one of a limited number of modems, meaning that
the firmware subject to the fair use analysis and the TPM and firmware being circumvented are often the same across device
categories that share a particular modem. While the number of discrete 5G modems that device manufacturers can buy to
integrate into their devices has increased somewhat during the last three years, my understanding is that a significant number of
5G chipsets in the United States continue to be developed by Qualcomm, so unlocking all wireless devices continues to implicate
a limited number of modem models from a single chipset vendor. Moreover, as ISRI's comments predicted in 2021and again in
2023, the number of devices of all sorts that include 5G connectivity has continued to rise significantly, including over the last
three years. As of April 2026, industry reports indicate that 4,256 discrete 5G device types have been announced, a 24% increase
from the year before and a dramatic increase over the June 2023 total of roughly 1,579 commercially available devices. See
Global Mobile Suppliers Association, State of the Market April 2026, https://gsacom.com/paper/state-of-the-market-april-2026/.
While smartphones remain the primary type of device utilizing 5G connections, accounting for slightly over half, the last three
years have seen considerable growth in other types of devices including industrial routers, modules, and Fixed Wireless Access
(FWA) devices (wireless connections that provide broadband access to a specific location such as a business premises or
industrial facility, including smart meters, agricultural sensors, remote cameras and surveillance devices, and many others).
https://gsacom.com/key-data/5g-devices/.
Bulk Unlocking Continues to be Necessary - ReMA, under the ISRI name, previously detailed, and the Register's
Recommendations and the Final Rules recognized, the adverse effects caused by the threat of §1201 enforcement and
experienced by wireless device owners, including individual consumers, resellers, and recyclers. These effects continue. As just
one example, with regard to wireless phones, the FCC's website confirms that carrier locking continues to limit the use of some
wireless phones. FCC, Cell Phone Unlocking, https://www.fcc.gov/general/cell-phone-unlocking ('if a consumer purchased a
phone from one provider to use on that provider's network, the phone may contain software that prevents it from being operated
on another provider's technologically compatible network. This software "locks" the phone to a provider's network. ... With many
providers, unless you purchased a phone or device specifically sold as "unlocked" at the point of purchase, you should presume
that it is locked to a specific wireless service provider's network."). Since July 2024, the FCC has had an open rulemaking
If you need more space, please
click here
to add additional pages to this form.

Item C. Explanation of Need For Renewal (continued)
proceeding considering whether to require wireless companies to unlock mobile phones within 60 days of activation to improve
consumer choice and enhance competition. NPRM, Promoting Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Through Handset
Unlocking Requirements and Policies (Jul 18, 2024), https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/FCC-24-77A1.pdf.
Going into 2026, ReMA members continue to purchase or acquire donated cell phones, tablets, laptops, and an increasingly wide
variety of other wireless-enabled devices no longer needed by their original owners, and work to make the best possible use of
them through resale or recycling. These devices are at times still locked by wireless carriers in ways that prevent them from being
used on other carriers, and ReMA resellers and recyclers continue to receive devices from their prior owners in a locked state.
While there are variations in which devices are locked and when or if carriers are willing to unlock them, the overall landscape has
not changed in any way material to this exemption. Unlocking those devices does not implicate legitimate copyright interests any
more now than three years ago. And the exemption continues to be necessary to allow device owners to connect their devices to
a wireless telecommunications network of their choice.
In addition, extending the useful life of wireless-enabled devices through unlocking supports broader supply chain resilience
objectives. By enabling the reuse and refurbishment of devices that contain valuable metals and critical minerals, the unlocking
exemption helps maximize the productive use of materials already in circulation and reduces the need for new resource
extraction. This contributes to a more secure and sustainable domestic supply of materials essential to modern manufacturing and
If you need more space, please
click here
to add additional pages to this form.

Item D. Declaration and Signature
The declaration is a sworn statement made under penalty of perjury, and must be signed by one of the petitioners named above.
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America that the following is true and correct:
1. Based on my own personal knowledge and experience, I have a good faith belief that but for the above-selected exemption's
continuation during the next triennial period (October 2027-October 2030), technological measures controlling access to relevant
copyrighted works are likely to diminish the ability of relevant users to make noninfringing uses of these works, and such users are likely
to rely upon the above-selected exemption during the next triennial period.
2. To the best of my knowledge, there has not been any material change in the facts, law, or other circumstances set forth in the prior
rulemaking record (available at copyright.gov/1201/2024) that originally demonstrated the need for the above-selected exemption,
such that renewal of the exemption would not be justified.
3. To the best of my knowledge, the explanation provided in Item C above is true and correct, and supports the above statements.
Name/Organization:
If the petitioner is an entity, this declaration must be signed by an individual at the organization having appropriate personal knowledge.
Kristen Hildreth, VP, Government Relations & Public Policy, ReMA
Signature:
This declaration may be signed electronically (e.g., "/s/ John Smith").
Is/ Kristen Hildreth
Date:
August 24, 2026