C
UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT OFFICE
Petition to Renew a Current Exemption Under 17 U.S.C. § 1201
Tenth Triennial Rulemaking
Please submil a thi ere petfon fui acu tury trn empion for which renewal is sought.
Renewals of Exemptions
Use this form to petition to renew a current exemption with no changes. You must also submit the new exemption petition form to petition
to expand or modify a current exemption.
New Exemptions, Expansions, or Modifications
Use the Petition for New Exemption form to petition for a new exemption, modify a current exemption, or are seeking to engage in
activites not currently permitted by an existing exemption.
Item A. Petitioners and Contact Information
Please identify the petitioners and provide a means to contact the petitioners and/or their representatives, if any. The petitioner is the
individual or entity proposing the exemption.
Prof. Matt Blaze
McDevitt Professor of Computer Science and Law
Georgetown University
Prof. Steven M. Bellovin
Percy K. and Vida L.W. Hudson Professor Emeritus of Computer Science
Columbia University
Senior Afiliate Scholar, Institute for Technology Law & Policy, Georgetown University
represented by
Prof. Andrea M. Matwyshyn
Professor of Law and Engineering Policy, Penn State Law
Professor, SEDI, Penn State Engineering
andreamm@psu.edu
Privacy Act Advisory Statement: Required by the Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-579)
The authority for requesting this information is 17 U.S.C. §8 1201(a)(1) and 705. Furnishing the requested information is voluntary. The principal use of the requested information is
publication on the Copyright Office website and use by Copyright Office staff for purposes of the rulemaking proceeding conducted pursuant to 17 U.S.C. S 1201 (a)(1). NOTE: No other
advisory statement will be given in connection with this application. Please keep this statement and refer to it if we communicate with you regarding this petition.
U.S. Copyright Office Library of Congress 101 Independence Avenue SE Washington, DC 20557-6400 copyright.gov
DSTITIAN TA PANSwA CuPeesn CYSMPTION HANER HSEAocy akhassl

Item B. Identify Which Current Exemption Petitioners Seek to Renew
Check the appropriate box below that corresponds with the current temporary exemption (see 37 C.F.R. § 201.40) the petitioners seek to
renew. Please check only one box. If renewal of more than one exemption is sought, a separate petition must be submitted for each one.
Motion Pictures (including television programs and videos):
Excerpts for use in documentary filmmaking or other films where use is in parody or for a biographical or historically significant nature
• Excerpts for use in noncommercial videos
O'
Excerpts for use in nonfiction multimedia e-books
• Excerpts for educational purposes by college and university faculty, students, or employees acting at the direction of faculty, or K-12
educators and students
• Excerpts for educational purposes by faculty and employees acting at the direction of faculty in massive open online courses ("MOOCs")
• Excerpts for educational purposes in digital and literacy programs offered by libraries, museums, and other nonprofits
• For the provision of captioning and/or audio description by disability services offices or similar units at educational institutions for
students, faculty, or staff with disabilities
• For the preservation or the creation of a replacement copy of the motion picture by libraries, archives, or museums
O
For text and data mining by a researcher affiliated with a nonprofit institution of higher education, or by student or staff at the direction
of such researcher, for the purpose of scholarly research and teaching
Literary Works:
• Literary works distributed electronically for text and data mining by a researcher affiliated with a nonprofit institution of higher
education, or by student or staff at the direction of such researcher, for the purpose of scholarly research and teaching
• Literary works or previously published musical works that have been fixed in the form of text or notation whose technological
protection measures interfere with assistive technologies
• Literary works consisting of compilations of data generated by medical devices or their personal corresponding monitoring systems,
to access personal data
Computer Programs and Video Games:
• Computer programs that operate wireless devices, to allow connection to an alternative wireless network ("unlocking")
• Computer programs that operate smartphones and portable all-purpose mobile computing devices to allow the device to interoperate
with or to remove software applications ("jailbreaking")
• Computer programs that operate smart televisions to allow the device to interoperate with software applications on the television for
purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking")
• Computer programs that operate voice assistant devices to allow the device to interoperate with or to remove software applications
for purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking")
• Computer programs that operate routers and dedicated network devices to allow the device to interoperate with software applications
on the device for purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking")
• Computer programs that control motorized land vehicles, marine vessels, or mechanized agricultural vehicles or vessels for purposes
of diagnosis, repair, or modification of the vehicle or vessel, including to access diagnostic data

Item B. Identify Which Current Exemption Petitioners Seek to Renew (continued)
Computer Programs and Video Games:
• Computer programs that control motorized land vehicles, marine vessels, commercial vehicles or vessels, or mechanized agricultural
vehicles or vessels by vehicle or vessel owners and lessees, or those acting on their behalf, for purposes of accessing, storing, and
sharing operational data
• Computer programs that control devices designed primarily for use by consumers for diagnosis, maintenance, or repair of the device
• Computer programs that control retail-level commercial food preparation equipment for purposes of diagnosis, maintenance, or
repair of the device
• Computer programs that control medical devices or systems, and related data files, for diagnosis, maintenance, or repair of the
device or system
• Computer programs for purposes of good-faith security research
Video games for which outside server support has been discontinued, to allow individual play by gamers and preservation of games
by libraries, archives, and museums (as well as necessary jailbreaking of console computer code for preservation uses only), and
discontinued video games that never required server support, for preservation by libraries, archives, and museums
• Computer programs other than video games, for the preservation of computer programs and computer program-dependent materials
by libraries, archives, and museums
• Computer programs that operate 3D printers, to allow use of alternative material
• Computer programs for purpose of investigating potential nfringement of free and open source computer programs

Item C. Explanation of Need For Renewal
Provide a brief explanation summarizing the continuing need and justification for renewing the exemption. While it is permissible to attach
supporting documentary evidence as exhibits to this petition, it is not necessary. Only petitions requesting renewal of exemptions granted in
the ninth triennial rulemaking as codified in the Code of Federal Regulations may be considered under the streamlined renewal process.
NOTE: Examples of renewal petitions filed in the last rulemaking cycle can be found at copyright.gov/1201/2024/petitions/renewal.
Informational guides explaining the 1201 rulemaking process and the streamlined renewal process can be found at copyright.gov/1201.
We are academics who research computer security and publish creative works related to computer security. We were part of the
group of original proponents of the security research exemption in 2015, and we successfully renewed this exemption during the
subsequent section 1201 rulemaking cycles. As such, we are fully aware of the issues involved with this exemption and the
historical need for it. We continue to perform the same categories of research as those articulated in our original petition, and we
continue to face the same copyright concerns that gave rise to our original petition for this exemption.
Through our work, we have personal knowledge that the need continues to exist for this exemption, and we have no
reason to believe that it will abate during the next triennial period. Indeed, during the last three years, one of us has continued to
be impacted by threats of prospective litigation from copyright holders in connection with his security research on software in
voting systems. In addition to our own reliance on this exemption, we have personally heard from security researchers who rely on
this exemption in their research. For example, the Election Integrity Foundation, https://eif.vote/, manages the DEFCON Voting
Village (the "Village"), which it continues to operate, and it intends to do so in the future on an annual basis, provided that the
exemption is renewed. The existence of the exemption ensures that both the Foundation's work (and resulting creative works) and
the participants' experiential learning on voting systems in the Village (and the creative works that arise from that research) do not
also give rise to litigation under section 1201.
Examples of recent Village activity and creative works can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/@defconvotingvillage;
https://defconfranklin.com/. The Village includes not only a hands-on security research component but also a speaker track with
public performances and discussions of ongoing research aimed at furthering security research education. A set of new creative
works has resulted from each Village research event. As the reports from past Village events explain, participants have been able
to successfully identify and develop exploits for existing vulnerabilities in a variety of voting systems in use at the
time in the United States - flaws that attackers might use as a point of entry into these systems, if not corrected. The press
coverage of these findings has also resulted in the creation of additional creative works and furthered the state of public
knowledge regarding the importance of security in voting systems. Thus, the state of knowledge regarding security of voting
systems was advanced, and numerous creative works resulted from the good-faith security research enabled by the exemption,
including effective countermeasures against newly identified attacks (and generating still more creative works).
As was the case three years ago, some software creators continue to adopt a litigious posture in response to
good-faith security research. Consequently, the harms identified in our original petition continue, and they will persist
for the foreseeable future. Indeed, since the last renewal of this exemption, we are aware of software creators who
have threatened litigation not only against security researchers, but also against the journalists who report on
security research. As these dynamics demonstrate, the public safety and authorship chilling concerns that animated
our original petition remain. Progressively greater numbers of products and services rely on software for their safe
operation, and the need for the exemption continues for the reasons previously articulated by us in our original
petition and by the Copyright Office in recommendations during the last several rulemaking cycles.
If you need more space, please
click here
to add additional pages to this form.

Item D. Declaration and Signature
The declaration is a sworn statement made under penalty of perjury, and must be signed by one of the petitioners named above.
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America that the following is true and correct:
1. Based on my own personal knowledge and experience, I have a good faith belief that but for the above-selected exemption's
continuation during the next triennial period (October 2027-October 2030), technological measures controlling access to relevant
copyrighted works are likely to diminish the ability of relevant users to make noninfringing uses of these works, and such users are likely
to rely upon the above-selected exemption during the next triennial period.
2. To the best of my knowledge, there has not been any material change in the facts, law, or other circumstances set forth in the prior
rulemaking record (available at copyright.gov/1201/2024) that originally demonstrated the need for the above-selected exemption,
such that renewal of the exemption would not be justified.
3. To the best of my knowledge, the explanation provided in Item C above is true and correct, and supports the above statements.
Name/Organization:
If the petitioner is an entity, this declaration must be signed by an individual at the organization having appropriate personal knowledge.
Prof. Andrea M. Matwyshyn on behalf of Prof. Matt Blaze and Prof. Steven M. Bellovin
Signature:
This declaration may be signed electronically (e.g., "/s/ John Smith").
Is/ Andrea Matwyshyn
Date:
August 24, 2026