UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT OFFICE
5
 Petition for New Exemption Under 17 U.S.C. § 1201
 Tenth Triennial Rulemaking
New Exemptions, Expansions, or Modifications
Use this form if you want to petition for a new exemption; modify a current exemption, such as altering the language in a current exemption; 
or are seeking to engage in activities not currently permitted by an existing exemption. 
Renewals of Exemptions
Use the Petition to Renew a Current Exemption form to renew a current exemption with no changes. You must also file a renewal petition 
if you are filing a new petition for expanding or modifying a current exemption.
Item A.  Petitioners and Contact Information
Please identify the petitioners and provide a means to contact the petitioners and/or their representatives, if any. The petitioner is the 
individual or entity proposing the exemption. 
U.S. Copyright Office     ·     Library of Congress     ·     101 Independence Avenue SE     ·     Washington, DC 20557-6400     ·     copyright.gov
PETITION FOR NEW EXEMPTION UNDER 17 U.S.C. § 1201  REV: 06 ⁄ 2026
Privacy Act Advisory Statement: Required by the Privacy Act of 1974 (P .L. 93-579)
The authority for requesting this information is 17 U.S.C. §§ 1201(a)(1) and 705. Furnishing the requested information is voluntary. The principal use of the requested information is 
publication on the Copyright Office website and use by Copyright Office staff for purposes of the rulemaking proceeding conducted pursuant to 17 U.S.C. § 1201(a)(1). NOTE: No other 
advisory statement will be given in connection with this application. Please keep this statement and refer to it if we communicate with you regarding this petition.
Please download this form before filling out any form fields.  
Please submit a separate petition for each proposed exemption.

Item B.  Description of Proposed New Exemption
Provide a brief statement explaining the nature of the proposed new exemption. The information that would be most helpful to the Office 
includes the following, to the extent relevant: (1) the types of copyrighted works that need to be accessed; (2) the physical media or 
devices on which the works are stored or the services through which the works are accessed; (3) the purposes for which the works need to 
be accessed; (4) the types of users who want access; and (5) the barriers that currently exist or which are likely to exist in the near future 
preventing these users from obtaining access to the relevant copyrighted works.
Petitioners need not propose precise regulatory language or fully define the contours of an exemption class. Rather, a short, plain 
statement describing the nature of the activities the petitioners wish to engage in will be sufficient, as proponents will have the opportunity 
to further refine or expound upon their initial petitions during later phases of the rulemaking. A complete legal and evidentiary showing 
supporting this new exemption petition should accompany the comments in support of requested exemptions during the round 1 
comment period. Those seeking to submit comments in response to a petition depend on proponents fulfilling the appropriate evidentiary 
requirements, so providing a complete legal and evidentiary show in support of this new exemption is critical.
NOTE: Examples of new petitions proposed last rulemaking cycle can be found at copyright.gov/1201/2024/petitions/proposed. 
Informational guides explaining the 1201 rulemaking process and the petition phase can be found at copyright.gov/1201.
If you need more space, please                                        to add additional pages to this form.
click here