UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT OFFICE 
G Petition to Renew a Current Exemption Under 17 U.S.C. § 12o1 
Tenth Triennial Rulemaking 
Please download this form before filling out anyform fields. 
Please submit a aeparate petition for each current exemption for which renewal is sought. 
Renewals of Exemptions 
Use this form to petition to renew a current exemption with no changes. You must also submit the new exemption petition form to petition 
to expand or modify a current exemption. 
New Exemptions, Expansions, or Modifications 
Use the Petition for New Exemption form to petition for a new exemption, modify a current exemption, or are seeking to engage in 
activites not currently permitted by an existing exemption. 
Item A. Petitioners and Contact hiformation 
Please identify the petitioners and provide a means to contact the petitioners and/or their representatives, if any. The petitioner is the 
individual or entity proposing the exemption. 
Caylor Equipment Services LLC 
1095 Jupiter Park Drive, Ste. 7 
Jupiter, FL 33458 
Kevin Caylor, President 
004)833-5577 
KCaylor@caylorequipmentservices.com 
Privacy Act Advisory Statement: Required by the Privacy Act of 1974 93-579) 
The authority for requesting this information is 17 U.S.C. 00 1201(a)(1) and 705. Furnishingthe requested information is voluntary. The principal use of the requested information is 
publication on the Copyright Ottice website and use by Copyright Office staff for purposes ot the rulemaking proceeding conducted pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 01201(a)(1). NOTE: No other 
advisory statement will be given in connection with this application. Please keep this statement and refer to it if we communicate with you regarding this petition. 
U.S. Copyright Office • Library of Congress • lot Independence Avenue 5E • Washington, DC 20557-6400 • copyright.gov  
PrIM0N TO RENEW A CURRENT EXEMPTION UNDER 17 U.S.C. S 1201 REV: 064026

item B. Identify which Current Exemption Petitioners Seek to Renew 
Check the appropriate box below that corresponds with the current temporary exemption (see 37 C.F.R. 0 201.40) the petitioners seek to 
renew. Please check only one box. If renewal of more than one exemption is sought, a separate petition must be submitted for each one. 
Motion Pictures (including television programs and videos): 
o Excerpts for use in documentary filmmaking or other films where use is in parody or for a biographical or historically significant nature 
o Excerpts for use in noncommercial videos 
o Excerpts for use in nonfiction multimedia e-books 
o Excerpts for educational purposes by college and university, faculty, students, or employees acting at the direction offaculty, or K-12 
educators and students 
o Excerpts for educational purposes byfaculty and employees acting atthe direction of faculty in massive open online courses ("MOOCs") 
© Excerpts for educational purposes in digital and literacy programs offered by libraries, rnuseums, and other nonprofits 
o For the provision of captioning and/or audio description by disability services offices or similar units at educational institutions for 
students, faculty, or staffwith disabilities 
o Forthe preservation or the creation of a replacement copy of the motion picture by libraries, archives, or museums 
o For text and data mining by a researcher affiliated with a nonprofit institution of higher education, or by student or staff at the direction 
of such researcher, for the purpose of scholarly research and teaching 
Literary Works: 
o Literary works distributed electronically for text and data mining by a researcher affiliated with a nonprofit institution of higher 
education, or by student or staff at the direction of such researcher, for the purpose of scholarly research and teaching 
o Literary works or previously published musical works that have been fixed in the form of text or notation whose technological 
protection measures interfere with assistive technologies 
o Literary works consisting of compilations of data generated by medical devices or their personal corresponding monitoring systems, 
to access personal data 
Computer Programs and Video Games: 
o Computer programs that operate wireless devices, to allow connection to an alternative wireless network ("unlocking") 
o Computer programs that operate smartphones and portable all-purpose mobile computing devices to allow the device to interoperate 
with or to remove software applications ("jailbreaking") 
o Computer programs that operate smart televisions to allowthe device to interoperate with software applications on the television for 
purposes otherthan gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking") 
o Computer programs that operate voice assistant devices to allow the device to interoperate with or to remove software applications 
for purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking") 
o Computer programs that operate routers and dedicated network devices to allow the device to interoperate with software applications 
on the device for purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking") 
o Computer programs that control motorized land vehicles, marine vessels, or mechanized agricultural vehicles or vessels for purposes 
of diagnosis, repair, or modification of the vehicle or vessel, including to access diagnostic data

Rem B. Identify Which Current Exemption Petitionen Seek to Renew (continued) 
Computer Programs and Video Games: 
O Computer programs that control motorized land vehicles, marine vessels, commercial vehicles or vessels, or mechanized agricultural 
vehicles or vessels by vehicle or vessel owners and lessees, or those acting on their behalf, for purposes of accessing, storing, and 
sharing operational data 
O Computer programs that control devices designed primarily for use by consumers for diagnosis, maintenance, or repair of the device 
O Computer programs that control retail-level commercial food preparation equipment for purposes of diagnosis, maintenance, or 
repair of the device 
0  Computer programs that control medical devices or systems, and related data files, for diagnosis, maintenance, or repair of the 
device or system 
O Computer programs for purposes of good-faith security research 
O Video games for which outside server support has been discontinued, to allow individual play by gamers and preservation of games 
by libraries, archives, and museums (as well as necessary jailbreaking of console computer code for preservation uses only), and 
discontinued video games that never required server support, for preservation by libraries, archives, and museums 
O Computer programs other than video games, for the preservation of computer programs and computer program-dependent materials 
by libraries, archives, and museums 
O Computer programs that operate 3D printers, to allow use of alternative material 
O Computer programs for purpose of investigating potential infringement of free and open source computer programs

Itein C. Explanation of Need For Renewal 
Provide a brief explanation summarizing the continuing need and justification for renewing the exemption. While it is permissible to attach 
supporting documentary evidence as exhibits to this petition, it is not necessary. Only petitions requesting renewal of exemptions granted in 
the ninth triennial rulemaking as codified in the Code ofFederal Regulations may be considered under the streamlined renewal process. 
NOTE: Examples of renewal petitions filed in the last rulemaking cycle can be found at copyright.gov/1201/2024/petitions/renewal . 
Informational guides explaining the 1201 rulemaking process and the streamlined renewal process can be found at copyright.gov/1201. 
Caylor Equipment Services LLC services and repairs surgical instruments including flexible endoscopes, rigid endoscopes, 
powered instruments, video cameras, patient monitoring equipment, and general and specialty instruments for the VA Healthcare 
System, active duty military bases and commercial hospitals and surgery centers. Access restrictions affecting installed software, 
diagnostic information, and related data files can interfere with timely and effective service. Access to software-generated error logs 
and diagnostic data is often critical to accurately diagnosing equipment failures and completing necessary maintenance and 
repairs. Caylor Equipment Services LLC therefore requests renewal of the current exemption for computer programs that control 
medical devices or systems, and related data files, when access is necessary for diagnosis, maintenance, or repair. 
lf you need more space, please click here to add additional pages to this form.

Rein D. Declaration and Signature 
The declaration is a sworn statement made under penalty of perjury, and must be signed by one of the petitioners named above. 
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America that the following is true and correct: 
1. Based on my own personal knowledge and experience, I have a good faith belief that but for the above-selected exemption's 
continuation during the next triennial period (October 2027-October 2030), technological measures controlling access to relevant 
copyrighted works are likely to diminish the ability of retevant users to make noninfringing uses of these works, and such users are likely 
to rely upon the above-selected exemption during the next triennial period. 
2. To the best of my knowledge, there has not been any material change in the facts, law, or other circumstances set forth in the prior 
rulemaking record (available at copyright.gov/7201/2024)  that originally demonstrated the need for the above-selected exemption, 
such that renewal of the exemption would not be justified. 
3. To the best of my knowledge, the explanation provided in Item C above is true and correct, and supports the above statements. 
Name/Organization: 
If the petitioneris an entity, this dectaration must be signed byan individual at the organization havingappropriate personal knowledge. 
"Jaylor Equipment Services LLC 
-4* This declaration i may be ed electronically (e.g., Vs/John Smith"). 
Date: 
38/14/2026 
Signature: