UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT OFFICE
Petition for New Exemption Under 17 U.S.C. § 1201
Tenth Triennial Rulemaking
lease submit a separate petition for each proposed exemptior
lease download this form before filling out any form fields
New Exemptions, Expansions, or Modifications
Use this form if you want to petition for a new exemption; modify a current exemption, such as altering the language in a current exemption;
or are seeking to engage in activities not currently permitted by an existing exemption.
Renewals of Exemptions
Use the Petition to Renew a Current Exemption form to renew a current exemption with no changes. You must also file a renewal petition
if you are filing a new petition for expanding or modifying a current exemption.
Item A. Petitioners and Contact Information
Please identify the petitioners and provide a means to contact the petitioners and/or their representatives, if any. The petitioner is the
individual or entity proposing the exemption.
Ken Austin
Vermont
gov@kmailbox.net
I maintain and actively play a large, private collection of video games and have experienced digital rights management (DRM)
software failures on multiple occasions when trying to run old games on modern computers. I'm also an independent game
developer, and I regularly create online videos with a partial focus on experiencing old games in their native operating
Privacy Act Advisory Statement: Required by the Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-579)
publication on the Copyright Office website and use by Copyright Office staff for purposes of the rulemaking proceeding conducted pursuant to 17 U.S.C. § 1201(a)(1). NOTE: No other
The authority for requesting this information is 17 U.S.C. §§ 1201(a)(1) and 705. Furnishing the requested information is voluntary. The principal use of the requested information is
advisory statement will be given in connection with this application. Please keep this statement and refer to it if we communicate with you regarding this petition.
U.S. Copyright Office • Library of Congress • 101 Independence Avenue SE • Washington, DC 20557-6400 • copyright.gov
PETITION FOR NEW EXEMPTION UNDER 17 U.S.C. $ 1201 REV: 06/2026

Item B. Description of Proposed New Exemption
Provide a brief statement explaining the nature of the proposed new exemption. The information that would be most helpful to the Office
includes the following, to the extent relevant: (1) the types of copyrighted works that need to be accessed; (2) the physical media or
devices on which the works are stored or the services through which the works are accessed; (3) the purposes for which the works need to
be accessed; (4) the types of users who want access; and (5) the barriers that currently exist or which are likely to exist in the near future
preventing these users from obtaining access to the relevant copyrighted works.
Petitioners need not propose precise regulatory language or fully define the contours of an exemption class. Rather, a short, plain
statement describing the nature of the activities the petitioners wish to engage in will be sufficient, as proponents will have the opportunity
to further refine or expound upon their initial petitions during later phases of the rulemaking. A complete legal and evidentiary showing
supporting this new exemption petition should accompany the comments in support of requested exemptions during the round 1
comment period. Those seeking to submit comments in response to a petition depend on proponents fulfilling the appropriate evidentiary
requirements, so providing a complete legal and evidentiary show in support of this new exemption is critical.
NOTE: Examples of new petitions proposed last rulemaking cycle can be found at copyright.gov/1201/2024/petitions/proposed.
Informational guides explaining the 1201 rulemaking process and the petition phase can be found at copyright.gov/1201.
I am seeking a circumvention exemption, applicable to individual owners of video games for the purpose of restoring playability,
for out of support releases of games which are unplayable because the DRM the games rely on no longer functions properly on
the local device running the software (e.g. because of incompatibility or other errors).
I have personally experienced the following two failure types when attempting to play old games on modern computers: online
DRM that no longer works and offline DRM that no longer works. (b)(19)(i)(A) in the current rules already allows individuals to
circumvent DRM that fails because it can no longer authenticate via an external server, provided the purpose of circumvention is
to restore the game to a locally playable state. However, even though the outcome is identical (a nonworking game), an
exemption doesn't currently exist for DRM failures that are local to a user's computer and similarly outside of their reasonable
control.
For example, many old games released for Windows on CD and DVD rely on DRM that no longer works on modern versions of
the operating system. SafeDisc is one such DRM implementation; it relies on a driver with a severe security vulnerability.
Because of the security flaw, Windows prevents the driver from loading, the DRM fails, and the protected game will not run. A
subset of these kinds of protected games lack official patches to remove or repair the faulty DRM, or new, working versions that
are reasonably available for purchase.
The current absence of the requested exemption represents a clear harm to individual owners by denying them a reasonable,
lawful way to access their affected games. To put it in analogous terms: without this exemption, the DMCA, deliberately or not,
endeavors to label otherwise honest sailors as pirates for having the audacity to board their own ships in spite of a broken
gangplank.
If you need more space, please
click here
to add additional pages to this form.