UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT OFFICE 
G Petition to Renew a Current Exeniption Under 17 U.S.C. § 1201 
Tenth Triennial Rulemaking 
Please download this form before filling out any form fields. 
Please submit a senarate petition for each current exemption for which renewal is sought. 
RenewaLs of Exemptions 
Use this form to petition to renew a current exemption with no changes. You must also submit the new exemption petition form to petition 
to expand or modify a current exemption. 
New Exemptions, Expansions, or Modifications 
Use the Petition for New Exemption form to petition for a new exemption, modify a current exemption, or are seeking to engage in 
activites not currently permitted by an existing exemption. 
Item A. Petitioners and Contact Mformation 
Please identify the petitioners and provide a means to contact the petitioners and/or their representatives, if any. The petitioner is the 
individual or entity proposing the exemption. 
Joint Educators: 
Peter Decherney, Edmund J. and Louise W. Kahn Endowed Term Chair in the Humanities, University of Pennsylvania 
(decherne@upenn.edu ) 
John Jackson, Provost, University of Pennsylvania 
Sarah Banet-Weiser, Dean, Annenberg School for Communication, University of Pennsylvania 
Society for Cinema and Media Studies 
Library Copyright Alliance 
Privacy Act Advisory Statement: Required by the Privacy Act of 1974 (PL. 93-579) 
The authority for requesting this information is 17 U.S.C. §§ 1201(a)(1) and 705. Furnishing the requested information is voluntary. The principal use of the requested information is 
publication on the Copyright Office website and use by Copyright Office staff for purposes of the rulemaking proceeding conducted pursuant to 17 U.S.C. § 1201(a)(1). NOTE: No other 
advisory statement will be given in connection with this application. Please keep this statement and refer to it if we communicate with you regarding this petition. 
U.S. Copyright Office • Library of Congress • um Independence Avenue SE • Washington, DC 2O557-64OO • copyright.gov  
PETITION TO RENEW A CURRENT EXEMPTION UNDER 17 U.S.C. § 1201 REV: 06/2026

Item B. Identify Which Current Exemption Petitioners Seek to Renew 
Check the appropriate box below that corresponds with the current temporary exemption (see 37 C.F.R. § 201.40) the petitioners seek to 
renew. Please check only one box. If renewal of more than one exemption is sought, a separate petition must be submitted for each one. 
Motion Pictures (including television programs and videos): 
 
Excerpts for use in documentary filmmaking or other films where use is in parody or for a biographical or historically significant nature 
Excerpts for use in noncommercial videos 
Excerpts for use in nonfiction multimedia e-books 
Excerpts for educational purposes by college and university, faculty, students, or employees acting at the direction of faculty, or K-12 
educators and students 
Excerpts for educational purposes by faculty and employees acting at the direction of faculty in massive open online courses ("MOOCs") 
Excerpts for educational purposes in digital and literacy programs offered by libraries, museums, and other nonprofits 
For the provision of captioning and/or audio description by disability services offices or similar units at educational institutions for 
students, faculty, or staff with disabilities 
For the preservation or the creation of a replacement copy of the motion picture by libraries, archives, or museums 
For text and data mining by a researcher affiliated with a nonprofit institution of higher education, or by student or staff at the direction 
of such researcher, forthe purpose of scholarly research and teaching 
Literary Works: 
Literaryworks distributed electronically for text and data mining by a researcher affiliated with a nonprofit institution of higher 
education, or by student or staff at the direction of such researcher, for the purpose of scholarly research and teaching 
Literary works or previously published musical works that have been fixed in the form of text or notation whose technological 
protection measures interfere with assistive technologies 
Literary works consisting of compilations of data generated by medical devices or their personal corresponding monitoring systems, 
to access personal data 
Computer Programs and Video Games: 
o Computer programs that operate wireless devices, to allow connection to an alternative wireless network ("unlocking") 
Computer programs that operate smartphones and portable all-purpose mobile computing devices to allow the device to interoperate 
with or to remove software applications ("jailbreaking") 
Computer programs that operate smart televisions to allow the device to interoperate with software applications on the television for 
purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking") 
Computer programs that operate voice assistant devices to allow the device to interoperate with or to remove software applications 
for purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking") 
Computer programs that operate routers and dedicated network devices to allow the device to interoperate with software applications 
on the device for purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking") 
Computer programs that control motorized land vehicles, marine vessels, or mechanized agricultural vehicles or vessels for purposes 
of diagnosis, repair, or modification of the vehicle or vessel, including to access diagnostic data

Item B. Identify Which Current Exemption Petitioners Seek to Renew (continued) 
Computer Programs and Video Games: 
O Computer programs that control motorized land vehicles, marine vessels, commercial vehicles or vessels, or mechanized agricultural 
vehicles or vessels by vehicle or vessel owners and lessees, or those acting on their behalf, for purposes of accessing, storing, and 
sharing operational data 
Computer programs that control devices designed primarily for use by consumers for diagnosis, maintenance, or repair of the device 
Computer programs that control retail-level commercial food preparation equipment for purposes of diagnosis, maintenance, or 
repair of the device 
Computer programs that control medical devices or systems, and related data files, for diagnosis, maintenance, or repair of the 
device or system 
Computer programs for purposes of good-faith security research 
Video games for which outside server support has been discontinued, to allow individual play by gamers and preservation of games 
by libraries, archives, and museums (as well as necessaryjailbreaking of console computer code for preservation uses only), and 
discontinued video games that never required server support, for preservation by libraries, archives, and museums 
O Computer programs other than video games, for the preservation of computer programs and computer program-dependent materials 
by libraries, archives, and museums 
O Computer programs that operate 3D printers, to allow use of alternative material 
O Computer programs for purpose of investigating potential infringement of free and open source computer programs

Item C. Explanation of Need For Renewal 
Provide a brief explanation summarizing the continuing need and justification for renewing the exemption. while it is permissible to attach 
supporting documentary evidence as exhibits to this petition, it is not necessary. Only petitions requesting renewal of exemptions granted in 
the ninth triennial rulemaking as codified in the Code ofFederal Regulations may be considered under the streamlined renewal process. 
NOTE: Examples of renewal petitions filed in the last rulemaking cycle can be found at copyright.gov/1201/2024/petitionslrenewal . 
Informational guides explaining the 1201 rulemaking process and the streamlined renewal process can be found at copyright.gov/1201. 
Joint Educators submit this petition to renew the Massive Open Online Course or "MOOC" exemption for use of audiovisual works 
for educational purposes as currently set forth in 37 CFR § 201.40 (b) (1) (ii) (B). 
As the Register first recognized in the 2015 Triennial Review process, as a result of technological advancement, the MOOC 
exemption is a natural extension of the well-established exemption to prohibition against circumvention for motion pictures and 
audiovisual works for educational purposes. The MOOC exemption is the most recent addition to the long established "motion 
pictures" exemption set forth in 37 CFR § 201.40 (b) (1) which has been accepted and renewed in the 2006, 2010, 2012, 2015, 
2018, 2021, and 2024 Copyright Office rulemakings. As technology advanced with respect to offering educational courses online, 
so did the need to make the same exemptions available in offline courses to online courses. This exemption was never as 
relevant as it was during the COVID-19 pandemic and the universal continuing shift of our education systems to online learning. 
This massive move online has dramatically increased access. 
MOOCs are online educational courses. Aside from video instruction, MOOCs may feature online quizzes and forums to 
encourage student engagement, virtual office hours where professors engage with students, and graded assignments (using 
software or peer students to do the grading) to evaluate what students learn from the course. MOOCs are offered in a wide range 
of subjects and are available in many different languages. MOOCs provide a tremendous public benefit by making college and 
university courses available to anyone with an Internet connection. MOOCs have increased access to education by offering 
participants flexibility in their educational experience and offering anyone with Internet access the opportunity to learn from the 
most esteemed professors in their fields. The 2015 MOOC exemption and its renewal in 2018 and 2021 were important first steps 
in addressing the expanding field of online education. The exemption allows institutions and instructors to develop, provide, and 
improve MOOCs. Instructors and learners can engage in the best and most technologically advanced educational experience 
possible. 
A renewal of this exemption is essential to provide faculty and learners participating in MOOCs the same ongoing access to 
audiovisual materials as their counterparts in the physical classroom. While the use of media in MOOCs is closely tied to the use 
of media in traditional classes, the exemption has brought clarity to the educational practice of teaching with and about media. 
For example, before the exemption was granted, there were only 2 or 3 MOOCs in the field of film and media studies, and they 
relied primarily on public domain examples. Today, there are dozens of MOOCs focused on analyzing media (entertainment, 
sports, politics, etc.) offered by Harvard, Northwestern, Michigan State, and other US colleges and universities. Petitioner 
Professor Decherney's popular course on the history of Hollywood has now reached nearly 80,000 students. In the course, he 
offers close readings of Hollywood classics like King Kong (1933) and Casablanca (1942) and analyzes digital special effects, 
sound design, and other elements of filmmaking. Other film and media studies MOOCs explore Hong Kong cinema, the 
psychology of memory and film, and marriage and the movies. The U.S. still lags far behind the United Kingdom, China, and 
other countries in film and media studies MOOC production. This exemption is critical to allow this popular and universal form of 
education to flourish. 
The existing MOOC exemption has proven beneficial for both faculty and students and to the best of our knowledge the 
exemption has caused no harm to rights-holders and has not led to infringement. Renewal would ensure that 1201 exemptions 
remain in line with technological advances with respect to online educational offerings incorporating non-infringing fair use of 
copyrighted works. 
MOOCs use audiovisual works in ways that would qualify as fair use if it were not for the ban on circumvention. In the 2015, 2018 
and 202 rulemakings, the Copyright Office recognized that fair use analysis indicates that a substantial number of the proposed 
uses of motion picture excerpts for criticism and comment in MOOCs offered by nonprofit educational institutions likely qualify as 
non-infringing under section 107. Some may also qualify as excepted uses under section 110(2). For these reasons, Joint 
Educators request that this important exemption be renewed. 
If you need more space, please click here to add additional pages to this form.

Item D. Declaration and Signature 
The declaration is a sworn statement made under penalty of perjury, and must be signed by one of the petitioners named above. 
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America that the following is true and correct: 
1. Based on my own personal knowledge and experience, I have a good faith belief that but for the above-selected exemption's 
continuation during the next triennial period (October 2027-October 2030), technological measures controlling access to relevant 
copyrighted works are likely to diminish the ability of relevant users to make noninfringing uses of these works, and such users are likely 
to rely upon the above-selected exemption during the next triennial period. 
2. To the best of my knowledge, there has not been any material change in the facts, law, or other circumstances set forth in the prior 
rulemaking record (available at copyright.gov/1201/2024)  that originally demonstrated the need for the above-selected exemption, 
such that renewal of the exemption would not be justified. 
3. To the best of my knowledge, the explanation provided in Item C above is true and correct, and supports the above statements. 
Name/Organization: 
lf the petitioner is an entity, this declaration must be signed byan individual at the organization having appropriate personal knowledge. 
Peter Decherney 
Signature: 
This declaration maybe signed electronically (e.g., "/s/ John Smith"). 
/s/Peter Decherney 
Date: 
August 20, 2026