UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT OFFICE 
 
Petition to Renew a Current Exemption Under 17 U.S.C. § 1201 
Tenth Triennial Rulemaking 
Please download this form before filling out any form fields. 
Please submit a separate petition for each current exemption for which renewal is sought. 
Renewals of Ex motions 
Use this form to petition to renew a current exernption with no changes. You rnust atso submit the new exrmption petition to 0 Petition 
to expand or modify a current exemption. 
New Exemptions, Expansions, or Modifications 
Use the Petition for New Exemption form to petition for a new exemption, modify a current exemption, or are seeking to engage in 
activites not currently permitted by an existing exemption. 
Item A. Petitioners and Contact Information 
Please identify the petitioners and provide a means to contact the petitioners and/or their representatives, if any. The petitioner is the 
individual or entity proposing the exemption. 
lmage One Medical Group 
6090 Rt 80 
Fort Deuaud, FL 33935 
Key contact: Jeremy Hesser 
Privacy Act Advisory Statement: Required by the Rnvacy Act of 1974 (Rt.. 93-979) 
The .,,thority fo, requesbof tmb information fs 17 1,LS.C. 55 1201 M0) and 705. Furnishing the requested latermahtst I& votuntary. The principal Uye ef the requested Infernlebon ts 
p,Sucstion on tbe Copyright Office websito ond use by Copyright Office staff tor PurP...5 .4 the rutematone Prooeeem Oti e oonoted peretiant tO 17 U.S C § 1201(011, NOTE: No coot f 
agasory statement sold be given m connection yam des appacanon. Raoul keep thts statement and refer to it if we communicate with you regarding this peunon. 
U 5 Copyright O Library of Congress • tat Independence Avenue SE • Washington, DC aoss7-6400 copyright.gov  
n us: 417U7 VEv

o 
Item O. Identify Which Current Exemption Petitioners Seek to Renew 
Check the appropriate box below that corresponds with the current temporary exemption (see 37 C.F.R. § 201.40) the petitioners Seek to 
renew. Please Check only one box. If renewal of more than one exemption is sought, a separate petition must be submitted for each one. 
Motion Pictures (including television programs and videos): 
Excerpts for use in documentary filmmaking or other films where use is in parody or for a biographicat or historically significant nature 
Excerpts for use in noncommercial videos 
Excerpts for use in nonfiction multimedia e-books 
Excerpts for educational purposes by college and university faculty, students, or employees acting at the direction of faculty, or K-12 
educators and students 
Excerpts for educational purposes by faculty and employees acting at the direction of facutty in massive open online courses ("MOOCs") 
Excerpts for educational purposes in digital and titeracy programs offered by tibraries, museums, and other nonprofits 
For the provision of captioning and/or audio description by disability services offices or similar units at educationat institutions for 
students, faculty, or staff with disabilities 
For the preservation or the creation of a replacement copy of the motion picture by libraries, archives, or museums 
For text and data mining by a researcher affiliated with a nonprofit institution of higher education, or by student or staff at the direction 
of such researcher, for the purpose of scholarly research and teaching 
Literary Works: 
Literary works distributed electronically for text and data mining by a researcher affiliated with a nonprofit institution of higher 
education, or by student or staff at the direction of such researcher, for the purpose of scholarly research and teaching 
Literary works or previously published musical works that have been fixed in the form of text or notation whose technotogicat 
protection measures interfere with assistive technologies 
o Literary works consisting of compilations of data generated by medical devices or their personal corresponding monitoring systems, 
to access personat data 
Computer Programs and Video Games: 
O Computer programs that operate wireless devices, to allow connection to an alternative wireless network ("unlocking") 
O Computer programs that operate smartphones and portable alt-purpose mobite computing devices to allow the device to interoperate 
with or to remove software apptications ("jailbreaking") 
O Computer programs that operate smart televisions to allow the device to interoperate with software applications on the television for 
purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jaitbreaking") 
O Computer programs that operate voice assistant devices to allow the device to interoperate with or to remove software applications 
for purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking") 
O Computer programs that operate routers and dedicated network devices to attow the device to interoperate with software applications 
on the device for purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking") 
O Computer programs that control motorized tand vehicles, marine vessels, or mechanized agricultural vehicles or vessels for purposes 
of diagnosis, repair, or modification of the vehicle or vessel, including to access diagnostic data

Item B. Identify Which Current Exemption Petitioners Seek to Renew eat! 
Computer Programs and Video Games: 
O Computer programs t€tatcontr4t Motorized 
vehicles or vessels by vehicle or vesset owners and le 
sharing operational data 
, marine vessels, commercial vehicles or vessels, or mechanized agncultura] 
es, or those acting on their behatf. for purposes of accessing, storing, anC 
0  Cornputer p grarns that contr d es desrgner3 prrrrzarily for use by consumers for di gnosis, rialntenance, or repa= of evrce 
O Computer programs that control retail-level commercial food preparation equiprrment for purposes of diagnosis, maintenance, 
repair of the device 
Computer programs that control 
device or system 
vices or systems, and related data files, for diagnosis, enance, ir of the 
Computerprograms for purposes of goo ith securij research 
O Video games for which outside server support has been discontinued, to altow individual play by garners and preservation of garnes 
by libraries, archives, and museums (as welt as necessarylailbreaking of console computer code for preservation uses only), and 
discontinued video games that never required server support, for preservation by libraries, archives, and museums 
O Compu 
by librar 
programs other than video games e preservation of computer programs and cornputer program-dependent materials 
archives, and museums 
Q Computer programs that operate 3D printers, to allow use of altemative rnateriat 
O Computer programs for purpo o vestigating potentiat infringement of free and open source cornputer programs

Item C. Explanation of Need Fox Renewal 
Provide a brief explanation summarizing the continuing need and justification for renewing the exemption. While It is permissibte to attach 
supporting documentary evidence as exhibits to this petition, it is not necessary. Only petitions requesting renewal of exemptionsgranted rn 
the ninth triennial rulernaking as codified in the Code &Federal Regutations may be considered under the strearnlined renewat process. 
NOTE: Examples of renewat petitions filed in the last rulemaking cycle can be found at copyright,gov/1201 /2024/petitions/renewal. 
Informational guides explaining the 1201 rulemaking process and the streamlined renewal process can be found at copyright.gov/1201.,  
ageone Medical Group, LLG services and repairs Siemens PET/CT, CT, and MRI systems for imaging centers, hospitals, and 
cancer treatment facilities throughout Florida, operating as a self-performing, engineer-owned independent service organization. 
Password-protected diagnostic sohware and restricted access to error logs and service data files routinely interfere with timely 
diagnosis and repair — tor example, recurring tault clusters in power/electrical systerns, gantry/table leveling, and camera/QC 
subsystems on PET/CT equipment require direct access to software-generated error logs to accurately isolate the failure and 
complete repair without unnecessary downtime. @ecause our clients include cancer centers where imaging delays directty affect 
patient care, continued access to device software. diagnostic information, and error logs remains necessary for frnageOne to 
perform timely. safe, and effective diagnosis, maintenance, and repair. ImageOne therefore requests renewal ot the current 
e?(emplion for computer programs that control medical devices or systems, and related data files, when access is necessary for 
diagnosis, maintenance, or repair. 
If you need more space, please  to add additional pages to this form.

Item D. Declaration a d Signature 
The declaration is a sworn staternent made under penatty of perjury, and must be signed by one of the petitioners named a ove. 
!declare un Ity of perjury unde the laws of the United States of Amerlca that the following is true and correct: 
1. Based on my own personal knowledge and experience, I have a good faith belief that but for the above-selected exemption's 
continuation during the next triennial period (October 2027-October 2030), technological measures controlling access to retevan, 
copyrighted works are likely to diminish the ability of relevant users to make noninfringing uses of these works, and such users are likety 
to rely upon the above-selected exemption during the next triennial period. 
2. To the my knowledge, there has not been any material change in the facts, law, or other circumstances set forth in the prior 
ruternaking record tavailabte at copyright.gov/1201/2024)that  originally demonstrated the need for the above-selected exemption, 
such that renewal of the exemption would not be justified. 
3, To the best of my knowledge, the explanation provided in Item C above is true and correct, and supports the above statements. 
Name/Organization: 
h`the Pe(rtioner is an ent this declaration must be signed by an individual at t e organization having appropriate personal knowledge.   
e 
 
Signature: 
This declara;io ay be signed electronically (e.g„ 'Vs/John rnith"). 
Date: 
8/1 2026