UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT OFFICE
5
 Petition to Renew a Current Exemption Under 17 U.S.C. § 1201
 Tenth Triennial Rulemaking
Renewals of Exemptions
Use this form to petition to renew a current exemption with no changes. You must also submit the new exemption petition form to petition 
to expand or modify a current exemption.
New Exemptions, Expansions, or Modifications
Use the Petition for New Exemption form to petition for a new exemption, modify a current exemption, or are seeking to engage in 
activites not currently permitted by an existing exemption.
Item A.  Petitioners and Contact Information
Please identify the petitioners and provide a means to contact the petitioners and/or their representatives, if any. The petitioner is the 
individual or entity proposing the exemption.
U.S. Copyright Oﬃce     ·      Library of Congress      ·      101 Independence Avenue SE      ·      Washington, DC 20557-6400      ·     copyright.gov
PETITION TO RENEW A CURRENT EXEMPTION UNDER /one.fitted/seven.fitted U.S.C. /section.alt1 /one.fitted/two.fitted/zero.fitted/one.fitted REV: 06 ⁄ 2026
Privacy Act Advisory Statement: Required by the Privacy Act of 1974 (P .L. 93-579)
The authority for requesting this information is 17 U.S.C. §§ 1201(a)(1) and 705. Furnishing the requested information is voluntary. The principal use of the requested information is 
publication on the Copyright Office website and use by Copyright Office staff for purposes of the rulemaking proceeding conducted pursuant to 17 U.S.C. § 1201(a)(1). NOTE: No other 
advisory statement will be given in connection with this application. Please keep this statement and refer to it if we communicate with you regarding this petition.
Please download this form before filling out any form fields.  
Please submit a separate petition for each current exemption for which renewal is sought.
Petitioner: Software Freedom Conservancy
137 Montague St., Ste. 380
Brooklyn, NY 11201-3548
(212) 461-3245
dmca-exemption@sfconservancy.org
Karen Sandler, Executive Director
karen@sfconservancy.org
Richard G. Sanders, General Counsel
rick@sfconservancy.org

Item B.  Identify Which Current Exemption Petitioners Seek to Renew 
Check the appropriate box below that corresponds with the current temporary exemption (see 37 C.F.R. § 201.40) the petitioners seek to 
renew. Please check only one box. If renewal of more than one exemption is sought, a separate petition must be submitted for each one. 
Motion Pictures (including television programs and videos):
 Excerpts for use in documentary filmmaking or other films where use is in parody or for a biographical or historically significant nature
 Excerpts for use in noncommercial videos
 Excerpts for use in nonfiction multimedia e-books 
  Excerpts for educational purposes by college and university faculty, students, or employees acting at the direction of faculty, or K-12 
educators and students
  Excerpts for educational purposes by faculty and employees acting at the direction of faculty in massive open online courses (“MOOCs”)
 Excerpts for educational purposes in digital and literacy programs offered by libraries, museums, and other nonprofits
  For the provision of captioning and/or audio description by disability services offices or similar units at educational institutions for 
students, faculty, or staff with disabilities
 For the preservation or the creation of a replacement copy of the motion picture by libraries, archives, or museums
  For text and data mining by a researcher affiliated with a nonprofit institution of higher education, or by student or staff at the direction 
of such researcher, for the purpose of scholarly research and teaching
 
Literary Works:
  Literary works distributed electronically for text and data mining by a researcher affiliated with a nonprofit institution of higher 
education, or by student or staff at the direction of such researcher, for the purpose of scholarly research and teaching
  Literary works or previously published musical works that have been fixed in the form of text or notation whose technological 
protection measures interfere with assistive technologies 
  Literary works consisting of compilations of data generated by medical devices or their personal corresponding monitoring systems, 
to access personal data
 
Computer Programs and Video Games:
 Computer programs that operate wireless devices, to allow connection to an alternative wireless network (“unlocking”)
  Computer programs that operate smartphones and portable all-purpose mobile computing devices to allow the device to interoperate 
with or to remove software applications (“jailbreaking”)
  Computer programs that operate smart televisions to allow the device to interoperate with software applications on the television for 
purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works (“jailbreaking”)
  Computer programs that operate voice assistant devices to allow the device to interoperate with or to remove software applications 
for purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works (“jailbreaking”)
  Computer programs that operate routers and dedicated network devices to allow the device to interoperate with software applications 
on the device for purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works (“jailbreaking”)
  Computer programs that control motorized land vehicles, marine vessels, or mechanized agricultural vehicles or vessels for purposes 
of diagnosis, repair, or modification of the vehicle or vessel, including to access diagnostic data

Item B.  Identify Which Current Exemption Petitioners Seek to Renew (continued) 
Computer Programs and Video Games:
  Computer programs that control motorized land vehicles, marine vessels, commercial vehicles or vessels, or mechanized agricultural 
vehicles or vessels by vehicle or vessel owners and lessees, or those acting on their behalf, for purposes of accessing, storing, and 
sharing operational data
 Computer programs that control devices designed primarily for use by consumers for diagnosis, maintenance, or repair of the device 
  Computer programs that control retail-level commercial food preparation equipment for purposes of diagnosis, maintenance, or 
repair of the device 
  Computer programs that control medical devices or systems, and related data files, for diagnosis, maintenance, or repair of the 
device or system 
 Computer programs for purposes of good-faith security research
  Video games for which outside server support has been discontinued, to allow individual play by gamers and preservation of games 
by libraries, archives, and museums (as well as necessary jailbreaking of console computer code for preservation uses only), and 
discontinued video games that never required server support, for preservation by libraries, archives, and museums
  Computer programs other than video games, for the preservation of computer programs and computer program-dependent materials 
by libraries, archives, and museums
 Computer programs that operate 3D printers, to allow use of alternative material
 Computer programs for purpose of investigating potential infringement of free and open source computer programs

Item C.  Explanation of Need For Renewal
Provide a brief explanation summarizing the continuing need and justification for renewing the exemption. While it is permissible to attach 
supporting documentary evidence as exhibits to this petition, it is not necessary. Only petitions reŗuesting renewal of exemptions granted in 
the ninth triennial rulemaking as codified in the Code of Federal Regulations may be considered under the streamlined renewal process.
NOTE: Examples of renewal petitions filed in the last rulemaking cycle can be found at copyright.gov/1201/2024/petitions/renewal.  
Informational guides explaining the 1201 rulemaking process and the streamlined renewal process can be found at copyright.gov/1201.
If you need more space, please                                        to add additional pages to this form.
click here
Petitioner Software Freedom Conservancy (SFC) is a not-for-proﬁﬁt organization that helps to promote, improve, develop, and 
defend Free and Open Source Software (FOSS)—software developed by volunteer communities and licensed for the beneﬁﬁt of 
everyone. SFC is the nonproﬁﬁt home for dozens of FOSS projects representing well over a thousand volunteer contributors. Our 
communities maintain some of the most fundamental utilities in computing today, and introduce innovations that will shape how 
software will be created in the future. But for these productive software-development communities to continue, it is necessary to 
ensure that everyone is playing by the same rules, i.e., complying with FOSS licenses. This is a service that SFC provides its 
member projects.
As explained in SFC’s 2024 petition for renewal, FOSS enables and encourages the volunteer, community-based development of 
software by (in many cases) requiring re-distributors of their FOSS software to make the source code for the software, including 
any modiﬁﬁcations or improvements. Without source code, it is impossible to study, modify, or improve the software. That is why the 
FOSS licenses require making the source code available.
SFC regularly and routinely investigates computers and computerized devices—including many consumer products like doorbells. 
baby monitors, and even refrigerators—to determine whether the manufacturers are complying with the relevant FOSS licenses, 
and to encourage them to become compliant if they are not. The problem of manufacturers’ failing to comply with FOSS licenses 
(whether through ignorance or otherwise) has not abated over the last three years. And there is no reason to think it will abate in 
the next three years. Indeed, reports of violations of FOSS licenses have more than doubled in only the last year.
We have also recently observed an increase in locking down computerized devices (preventing access to copyrighted FOSS). We 
have reason to believe that these lock-downs are in response to the increasing use of large language models (LLMs, a form of 
generative AI) to access and ﬁﬁx software on these devices much more easily and efﬁﬁciently than has been possible in the past, 
even for experienced developers. Manufacturers, generally speaking, would prefer customers buy new devices rather than ﬁﬁx 
them, so they are increasing their efforts to prevent access to their computerized devices.
Without this exemption, SFC will be unable to continue its important charitable work enforcing and educating the public about 
FOSS and FOSS licenses.
click here

Item D.  Declaration and Signature
The declaration is a sworn statement made under penalty of perjury, and must be signed by one of the petitioners named above.
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America that the following is true and correct: 
1.   Based on my own personal knowledge and experience, I have a good faith belief that but for the above-selected exemption’s 
continuation during the next triennial period (October 2027–October 2030), technological measures controlling access to relevant 
copyrighted works are likely to diminish the ability of relevant users to make noninfringing uses of these works, and such users are likely 
to rely upon the above-selected exemption during the next triennial period.
2.   To the best of my knowledge, there has not been any material change in the facts, law, or other circumstances set forth in the prior 
rulemaking record (available at copyright.gov/1201/2024) that originally demonstrated the need for the above-selected exemption, 
such that renewal of the exemption would not be justified.
3.  To the best of my knowledge, the explanation provided in Item C above is true and correct, and supports the above statements.  
Name/Organization: 
If the petitioner is an entity, this declaration must be signed by an individual at the organization having appropriate personal knowledge.
Signature: 
This declaration may be signed electronically (e.g., “/s/ John Smith”).
Date:
Karen M. Sandler and Richard G. Sanders on behalf of Software Freedom Conservancy, Inc.
s/ Karen M. Sandler
/s/ Richard G. Sanders
August 24, 2026