UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT OFFICE
Petition to Renew a Current Exemption Under 17 U.S.C. § 1201
Tenth Triennial Rulemaking
ease submit a separate petition for each current exemption for which renewal is sougl
ease download this form before filling out any form field
Renewals of Exemptions
Use this form to petition to renew a current exemption with no changes. You must also submit the new exemption petition form to petition
to expand or modify a current exemption.
New Exemptions, Expansions, or Modifications
Use the Petition for New Exemption form to petition for a new exemption, modify a current exemption, or are seeking to engage in
activites not currently permitted by an existing exemption.
Item A. Petitioners and Contact Information
Please identify the petitioners and provide a means to contact the petitioners and/or their representatives, if any. The petitioner is the
individual or entity proposing the exemption.
Authors Alliance, Inc.
David Hansen, Executive Director
2108 N St # 8898
Yuanxiao Xu, Staff Attorney
Sacramento, CA 95816
dave@authorsalliance.org
Represented by:
Samuelson Law, Technology & Public Policy Clinic
University of California, Berkeley, School of Law
Erik Stallman, Associate Director
estallman@clinical.law.berkeley.edu
Library Copyright Alliance
Jonathan Band, Counsel
1025 Connecticut Ave. NW Suite 1200
Washington, DC 20036
jband@policybandwidth.com
Privacy Act Advisory Statement: Required by the Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-579)
publication on the Copyright Office website and use by Copyright Office staff for purposes of the rulemaking proceeding conducted pursuant to 17 U.S.C. § 1201(a)(1). NOTE: No other
The authority for requesting this information is 17 U.S.C. §§ 1201(a)(1) and 705. Furnishing the requested information is voluntary. The principal use of the requested information is
advisory statement will be given in connection with this application. Please keep this statement and refer to it if we communicate with you regarding this petition.
U.S. Copyright Office • Library of Congress • 101 Independence Avenue SE • Washington, DC 20557-6400 • copyright.gov
PETITION TO RENEW A CURRENT EXEMPTION UNDER 17 U.S.C. S 1201 REV: 06/2026

Item B. Identify Which Current Exemption Petitioners Seek to Renew
Check the appropriate box below that corresponds with the current temporary exemption (see 37 C.F.R. § 201.40) the petitioners seek to
renew. Please check only one box. If renewal of more than one exemption is sought, a separate petition must be submitted for each one.
Motion Pictures (including television programs and videos):
Excerpts for use in documentary filmmaking or other films where use is in parody or for a biographical or historically significant nature
O Excerpts for use in noncommercial videos
Excerpts for use in nonfiction multimedia e-books
• Excerpts for educational purposes by college and university faculty, students, or employees acting at the direction of faculty, or K-12
educators and students
Excerpts for educational purposes by faculty and employees acting at the direction of faculty in massive open online courses ("MOOCs")
• Excerpts for educational purposes in digital and literacy programs offered by libraries, museums, and other nonprofits
O
For the provision of captioning and/or audio description by disability services offices or similar units at educational institutions for
students, faculty, or staff with disabilities
• For the preservation or the creation of a replacement copy of the motion picture by libraries, archives, or museums
• For text and data mining by a researcher affiliated with a nonprofit institution of higher education, or by student or staff at the direction
of such researcher, for the purpose of scholarly research and teaching
Literary Works:
• Literary works distributed electronically for text and data mining by a researcher affiliated with a nonprofit institution of higher
education, or by student or staff at the direction of such researcher, for the purpose of scholarly research and teaching
• Literary works or previously published musical works that have been fixed in the form of text or notation whose technological
protection measures interfere with assistive technologies
• Literary works consisting of compilations of data generated by medical devices or their personal corresponding monitoring systems,
to access personal data
Computer Programs and Video Games:
• Computer programs that operate wireless devices, to allow connection to an alternative wireless network ("unlocking")
• Computer programs that operate smartphones and portable all-purpose mobile computing devices to allow the device to interoperate
with or to remove software applications ("jailbreaking")
• Computer programs that operate smart televisions to allow the device to interoperate with software applications on the television for
purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking")
• Computer programs that operate voice assistant devices to allow the device to interoperate with or to remove software applications
for purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking")
• Computer programs that operate routers and dedicated network devices to allow the device to interoperate with software applications
on the device for purposes other than gaining unauthorized access to copyrighted works ("jailbreaking)
• Computer programs that control motorized land vehicles, marine vessels, or mechanized agricultural vehicles or vessels for purposes
of diagnosis, repair, or modification of the vehicle or vessel, including to access diagnostic data

Item B. Identify Which Current Exemption Petitioners Seek to Renew (continued)
Computer Programs and Video Games:
• Computer programs that control motorized land vehicles, marine vessels, commercial vehicles or vessels, or mechanized agricultural
vehicles or vessels by vehicle or vessel owners and lessees, or those acting on their behalf, for purposes of accessing, storing, and
sharing operational data
• Computer programs that control devices designed primarily for use by consumers for diagnosis, maintenance, or repair of the device
• Computer programs that control retail-level commercial food preparation equipment for purposes of diagnosis, maintenance, or
repair of the device
• Computer programs that control medical devices or systems, and related data files, for diagnosis, maintenance, or repair of the
device or system
• Computer programs for purposes of good-faith security research
• Video games for which outside server support has been discontinued, to allow individual play by gamers and preservation of games
by libraries, archives, and museums (as well as necessary jailbreaking of console computer code for preservation uses only), and
discontinued video games that never required server support, for preservation by libraries, archives, and museums
• Computer programs other than video games, for the preservation of computer programs and computer program-dependent materials
by libraries, archives, and museums
• Computer programs that operate 3D printers, to allow use of alternative material
Computer programs for purpose of investigating potential infringement of free and open source computer programs

Item C. Explanation of Need For Renewal
Provide a brief explanation summarizing the continuing need and justification for renewing the exemption. While it is permissible to attach
supporting documentary evidence as exhibits to this petition, it is not necessary. Only petitions requesting renewal of exemptions granted in
the ninth triennial rulemaking as codified in the Code of Federal Regulations may be considered under the streamlined renewal process.
NOTE: Examples of renewal petitions filed in the last rulemaking cycle can be found at copyright.gov/1201/2024/petitions/renewal.
Informational guides explaining the 1201 rulemaking process and the streamlined renewal process can be found at copyright.gov/1201.
Authors Alliance is a nonprofit organization with the mission to advance the interests of authors who want to serve the public good
by sharing their creations broadly. We create resources to help authors understand and enjoy their rights and promote policies
that make knowledge and culture available and discoverable. For more information, visit http://www.authorsalliance.org
The Library Copyright Alliance (LCA) consists of two major library associations—the American Library Association (ALA) and the
Association of Research Libraries (ARL)—that collectively represent over 100,000 libraries in the United States.
As supporters of the existing text and data mining ("TDM") exemption for motion pictures, petitioners are well situated to affirm the
continued need and justification for this exemption. We have continued to work with researchers, some of whom were named in
the initial petition during the Eighth Triennial Rulemaking and the subsequent petition to modify the exemption in the Ninth
Triennial Rulemaking. Many researchers are now actively relying on the TDM exemption in their research. The exemption has
enabled ambitious research agendas that have resulted in published scholarship. See, e.g., David Bamman, Rachael Samberg,
Richard Jean So, and Naitan Zhou, "Measuring Diversity in Hollywood Through the Large-Scale Computational Analysis of Film,"
Proc. of the Nat'l Acad. of Sciences, Vol. 121, No. 46 (Nov. 4, 2024), https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2409770121. Many ongoing
projects also rely on the exemption. The exemption has supported the missions of scholarly societies like the Association for
Computers and the Humanities.
Since the time of the Ninth Triennial Rulemaking, Authors Alliance has continued to engage with digital humanities research
communities through workshops, individual consultations, and conference presentations. These efforts have reached well over a
thousand researchers, librarians, and other academic faculty from across the United States. Through those efforts Authors
Alliance has supported a growing number of researchers who are currently relying on the exemption for research in progress and
who have sought guidance on its application. This includes researchers from large research-intensive institutions, such as
Stanford University, UC Berkeley, the University of Chicago, Dartmouth, and others, some of whom have published research cited
in this petition. Authors Alliance efforts have also reached an increasingly broad group of researchers from smaller and less
research-intensive institutions (e.g., Haverford College, Hofstra University), who have expressed interest in using the new
exemption for research across a number of academic disciplines, using both literary works and motion pictures.
There is a continuing need for the exemption. Because academic researchers need to assemble and annotate their own research
corpora, that need is unlikely to abate during the next triennial period.
The existing record from the Eight and Ninth Triennial Rulemakings explain well the legal and factual justifications for this
exemption, and there are no material changes in facts, law, technology, or other circumstances that would justify failing to renew
it. Fair use case law continues to evolve, but no new developments undermine the rationale supporting the Office's 2021 and
research institutions. However, these licensed products do not allow researchers to license the full array of films needed to
2024 exemption recommendations. Commercially licensed text and data mining products continue to be made available to
engage in the research they seek to do, and those works remain protected from copying by technological protection measures.
Further, because the exemption specifically excludes application to compilations of works that are licensed for TDM use, the
emergence of additional licensed access to those compilations is not material.
If you need more space, please
click here
to add additional pages to this form.

Item D. Declaration and Signature
The declaration is a sworn statement made under penalty of perjury, and must be signed by one of the petitioners named above.
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America that the following is true and correct:
1. Based on my own personal knowledge and experience, I have a good faith belief that but for the above-selected exemption's
continuation during the next triennial period (October 2027-October 2030), technological measures controlling access to relevant
copyrighted works are likely to diminish the ability of relevant users to make noninfringing uses of these works, and such users are likely
to rely upon the above-selected exemption during the next triennial period.
2. To the best of my knowledge, there has not been any material change in the facts, law, or other circumstances set forth in the prior
rulemaking record (available at copyright.gov/1201/2024) that originally demonstrated the need for the above-selected exemption,
such that renewal of the exemption would not be justified.
3. To the best of my knowledge, the explanation provided in Item C above is true and correct, and supports the above statements.
Name/Organization:
If the petitioner is an entity, this declaration must be signed by an individual at the organization having appropriate personal knowledge.
Authors Alliance, Inc.
Signature:
This declaration may be signed electronically (e.g., "/s/ John Smith").
/s/ David Hansen
Date:
August 24, 2026